
+++
date = '2025-01-24T21:30:10-05:00'
draft = false
title = 'Paper Session 1'
+++

Thursday, March 13, 2025  
10:20am - 11:40am  
Location TBA

## YAWN

[Mike McCormick](/bios/#mike-mccormick)  
10:20am

The experimental metal band YAWN formed in 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic with the goal of creating and performing uncompromising instrumental music characterized by low-tuned guitars, a complex rhythmic language, and detailed sound design.

High production value is a defining feature of this genre, and instead of relying on commercial softwares that impose certain normative performance practices, we decided shortly after the band's formation to rely on SuperCollider to synchronize click track playback, MIDI automation of effects and presets on digital guitar amplifiers, backing track playback, and our pre-programmed light show. After several years of touring with this setup, the software has grown to accommodate unconventional performative or rhythmic concepts and our musical aesthetic has fully embraced the idiosyncrasies afforded by this tailor-made approach.

In this talk I will present an overview of the SuperCollider classes I've been developing for YAWN since 2020, how the system has evolved to address the unique performative challenges presented by our music, and how it interfaces with the rest of our setup in concert. I'll also share how SuperCollider has been a central tool in our ongoing areas of research, which include generative aural "scores" and tempo polyphony.

## MIRLCa

[Anna Xambó](/bios/#anna-xambó)  
10:40am

In this presentation, I will introduce the state of affairs of the development of MIRLCa, a self-built tool in SuperCollider. The ongoing SC extension is a user-friendly live coding environment that allows the live coder to query crowdsourced sounds from the Freesound online database using MIR techniques together with interactive machine learning based on the FluCoMa library. This results in a crafted sound-based music style governed by a diverse chorale of sounds that the live coder attempts to tame. The presentation will cover both technical developments and artistic outcomes of using the tool.

## Sound Matching

[Gerard Roma](/bios/#gerard-roma)  
11am

Sound matching is a classic problem in sound synthesis, originally posed for controlling FM synthesis. Given a target sound, the problem is to find the parameters that a synthesizer could use to synthesize the target. It is common to distinguish between in-domain targets (sounds originally generated by the same synthesizer) and out-of-domain targets (sounds coming from other sources). In recent work, I explored using SuperCollider to create synthesizer ensembles which were paired with ensembles neural network regressors to match out-of-domain sounds.

This paper will explore a more practical use case, using the Fluid Corpus Manipulation toolbox  to incorporate sound matching into purely SC-based creative workflows. Given a synthesizer designed to produce a range of sounds, an out-of-domain sound can be used to predict a set of parameters. It is up to the user to design the synthesizer and target for more predictable or more serendipitous results. The paper will consider the case for real-time matching as well as for offloading some of the parameters, such as pitch and amplitude,  from the regression problem.

## supercollider-gst-rtp

[Bruno Gola](/bios/#bruno-gola)  
11:20am

In this paper presentation I introduce a framework for multichannel audio streaming from SuperCollider to mobile phones and other devices that support WebRTC, using RTP (Real-time Transport Protocol) and WebRTC together with the Janus WebRTC Gateway. The main feature related to SuperCollider is the supercollider-gst-rtp plugin, published as an opensource SuperCollider plugin. The supercollider-gst-rtp plugin allows the user to define multiple inputs (on different UDP ports) and outputs (as a combination of host and port) to stream any audio signal direct from a Synth definition, or to receive an audio stream also inside the Synth definition. This approach opens possibilities not only for multichannel pieces but also for easy and flexible audio communication over the network direct from SuperCollider without the need of external tools.

